# Physics Capstone GW
**_Course Materials for physics capstone experience and writing-intensive courses at The George Washington University_**

The Physics capstone experience at The George Washington University was revamped in 2018, with a focus on various research skills, career preparedness, societal outreach and impact, community building and issues, and written and oral communication skills. At the same time, course materials were developed for three writing-intensive courses in a collaboration between faculty from the Physics Department and University Writing Program, but taught by the Physics faculty. All Physics majors (including the BS in Physics, Biophysics, and Astronomy & Astrophysics, and the BA in Physics) take the Physics Capstone course (PHYS 4195W; 3 credits) in the Fall of the junior year. During the Spring of the junior year and Fall of the senior year, the BS students (and some of the BA students) do most of their undergraduate research project under the supervision of a faculty member (3 credits). In the Spring of the senior year, the BS students (and some of the BA students) take the Physics Symposium course (PHYS 4200; 1 credit), which guides them in preparing a report, poster and presentation on their research project. In the spring of their sophomore or junior year, students take an Intermediate Lab course (PHYS 2151W) that has a writing-intensive component and counts for the Writing element of their General Education Curriculum, i.e., Writing in the Disciplines. The Physics Capstone course counts for both Writing and Oral Communication in the General Education Curriculum.

This repository contains materials of all three courses courses, including the [syllabus](CapstoneSyllabus.md) and [class materials](CapstoneClasses.md) (including slides and grading rubrics) of the Capstone course, the [syllabus](SymposiumSyllabus.md) and [class materials](SymposiumClasses.md) of the Symposium course, and the [syllabus](IntermediateLabSyllabus.md) and [some class materials](IntermediateLabMaterials.md). These courses have been taught for several years, for class sizes varying from a handful to 20 students. The courses' structure and materials have been improved upon based on in-class experience and feedback from students. For the Physics Capstone course, the primary instructor typically invites expert guest instructors for some specific aspects of the course, including classes on physics careers, applications for graduate school, physics outreach, and diversity and inclusion. Besides an overview and all materials of the courses, there are separate pages for [certain topics of interest in the Physics Capstone course](Topics/), in particular classes and activities related to [physics careers](Topics/Careers.md), [the physics community](Topics/Community.md), [physics research](Topics/Research.md), [oral presentations](Topics/Presenting.md), and [written communication](Topics/Writing.md). A [Fall 2018 article](https://columbian.gwu.edu/physics-professionally-speaking) featured the Physics Capstone course, including interviews with some of the students.

The revisions of the Physics Curriculum at the George Washington University were in line with the [Phys21 report](https://www.compadre.org/jtupp/) of the Joint Task Force on Undergraduate Physics Programs, convened by the American Physical Society and the American Association of Physics Teachers. Some of the aspects of the revisions were funded by the [PIPELINE Network](https://epic.aps.org/about/) of the American Physical Society. The Physics capstone experience was part of curricular innovations that led to the George Washington University receiving the American Physical Society's [Award for Improving Undergraduate Physics Education](https://www.aps.org/programs/education/undergrad/faculty/awardees.cfm).

#### Copyright - Creative Commons License

Faculty can use these course materials under [Creative Commons License Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/).
